{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf320
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10320\viewh10160\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 Tesla Coil Part 1
\b0 \
	Nikola Tesla was a pretty unique person.  He created many ingenious things that have very significantly advanced our society. Without his creations, we would only be able to transmit power a few kilometres, we wouldn't have the powerful radio transmitters available, our knowledge of the universe would not be where it is now, he (unofficially) discovered x-rays, etc. I could probably write an entire article just listing all the discoveries, but instead I would like to focus on one creation, probably his most famous invention, the tesla coil.\
	This piece of equipment is an ingenious piece of technology.  If you aren't highly active in the electricity/electronics field, you may not know that the tesla coil is the basis for displaying a picture on a crt television, receiving a radio signal in your radio, the predecessor to modern radio transmitters, is used to create lightning shows (including audio), and much more.  It is believed by some that not all of its uses have been tapped either.  Nikola Tesla himself had his mind set on using it to phase out power lines.  He wanted to use it to create a massive electric field that would allow one to power a device with a seemingly unconnected power source.  This last use is what I would like to delve into (and as a byproduct, I will explain using it as a speaker and to produce lightning).\
	The first thing that must be figured out is just how this device works.  There are a number of sources online that explain tesla coils, but few are in the detail that I will go into, and many are for the sole purpose of creating lightning.\
\

\b Step 1: [How the tesla coil works (General)]\
					
\b0 <Tesla Coil - Box Layout>
\b \

\b0 	The above image is a box layout of a tesla coil.  It includes all the key categories of components in the general order of how they are put together.  By the end of the last part of the article, each one of those blocks will contain the appropriate circuitry.\
\

\i Box 1: Power Supply\

\b 	
\i0\b0 The power supply to run a tesla coil generally needs to be able to generate a large amount of power (500+ watts) via an alternating current, since an A/C signal is the basis of how the coil operates.  I use the city power (mains power) via a home outlet.  This supply (in Canada & the US) will be 120 volts, 60 hertz, and a standard home line can handle 15 amps (check the breaker rating to be certain). Since this line is attached to the rest of your household appliances, the rest of the cities' appliances, and likely much of the province's appliances, it is very important that there is a very strong barrier between your tesla coil's dangerous signals, and the outlet. This comes in the form of an RF Filter.\
\
Box 2: Mains RF Filter\
					<Mains RF Filter>\
	This filter is used to block any radio frequency signals from riding the 60Hz signal back into the power grid, it will also block and high voltage surges back into the grid.  If this event were to occur, depending on your coil characteristics, it could destroy your home's electronics, and possibly even neighbours' electronics. To keep this from happening, we use capacitors, and inductors.  The inductors filter out the voltage spikes, and the capacitors shunt high frequencies to ground. This can be bought pre-made, or you can make your own.\
\
Box 3: Ballast\
					<Ballast>\
	The ballast is very important if your step up stage can handle a very high amount of power, more so than what your breaker can handle, or what your coil is built for. A Ballast limits the current flow through the tesla coil through either a resistor, or since we are using A/C, an inductor will work as well.  Using a resistor works, but an inductor works better because you aren/'t wasting a bunch of energy to heat.\
\
Box 4: Power Factor Correction\
					<Power Factor Correction>\
	\
\
Box 5: Step Up\
					<Step Up>\
 }